Professional Development Budget company-wide policy


What is this page for?
This page lists the policy all Wisers are required to follow regarding the Professional Development Budget at Wise, which can be used for work-related development opportunities specified below.
Please note that some teams across Wise may have their own copies of this page with slightly modified or specific information. We do not have any control over the content on those pages, nor do we monitor questions there.

Introduction
This page displays the Policy that the People Team, in contribution with Accounting, has prepared so each Wiser would have clear guidelines on how to make decisions regarding their Professional Development Budget. We want you to get the best possible results and experience, however we’re asking you to be mindful of how you spend this allowance, so that every little thing you do contributes ultimately to Mission Zero.
Why use the budget?
At Wise, we encourage self-development and continuous professional and personal growth. 
A professional development budget is allocated to each Wiser annually.
Responsibility and Accountability of Leads
Please note that different teams have made slightly different adjustments and that ultimately your Lead and your cost-centre owners are accountable for how your Professional Development allowance is spent. In case your Lead is confident in approving your request, you do not need to consult the Talent Development team (formerly POD).
Leads are responsible and accountable for how the budget is allocated and may decide to pool funding together and spend it on a team initiative, rather than allocate it individually.
How much is the budget?

Teams
Amounts
Product, Engineering, Design, Analytics
750 GBP / 1000 USD / 883 EUR / 3671 AED / 1559 AUD / 5669 BRL / 826 CHF / 7266 CNY / 7750 HKD / 356961 HUF / 16541686 IDR / 3632 ILS / 84543 INR / 142919 JPY / 4400 MYR / 1305 SGD / 41167 UAH
Finance, People, Compliance, Legal, Banking, Marketing
650 GBP / 866 USD / 765 EUR / 3181 AED / 1351 AUD / 4913 BRL / 716 CHF / 6297 CNY / 6716 HKD / 309367 HUF / 14336128 IDR / 3148 ILS / 73270 INR / 123863 JPY / 3800 MYR / 1150 SGD / 35678 UAH
Servicing Operations Servicing Organisation Structure
240 GBP / 320 USD / 283 EUR / 1175 AED / 499 AUD / 1815 BRL / 265 CHF / 2325 CNY / 2480 HKD / 114228 HUF / 5293340 IDR / 1165 ILS / 27054 INR / 45743 JPY / 1400 MYR / 418 SGD / 13174 UAH





Eligibility
This budget is available after you complete your probationary period, or after three months in role if there is no probation period in your location.
The budget is allocated each calendar year. If you’re a new joiner, your budget is prorated in your first year - so if you joined the Finance Team in London in June, you would wait until the end of your probation (which would end in August) and you would be eligible for £216.54 to spend before the end of the year (£650/12 and then multiplied by 4 months)
The budget is valid for 1 year only from 1 Jan-31 December. Please refer to your team-specific guidelines on rollover.
Wisers on maternity or parental leave can still use their professional development budget - the usual rules apply.
Wisers who work part time have full access to the development budget.
Wisers who move teams between 1 Jan and 31 December may use any remaining Professional Development Budget for the remainder of the calendar year.
Any requests must be discussed and approved by your Lead, who is ultimately accountable for the usage of the budget, before going ahead.
The Wiser must be actively employed and not have resigned prior to using their Professional Development Budget, or expecting to leave Wise for any reason before, during or immediately after using the Professional Development Budget.
Guidelines on spending your professional development budget
Please be aware that we have licenses for every Wiser for LinkedIn learning. You don’t need to use your Professional Development Budget for it. More info can be found here.
Show a clear link between your spending, your performance and your development
Review your latest development conversations and the feedback you received from your Lead and your stakeholders. Consider the areas where you currently have gaps or your ambitions when you think about your growth (a promotion, gaining more responsibility in your job, getting comfortable performing a completely new task).
You need to prove that what you choose to spend your Professional Development Budget on would help you achieve your long-term goals or address your current gaps, while keeping in mind the Business' general goals.
When you discuss your request with your Lead, you should show how you intend to bridge the gap between your current skills, knowledge or experience and your goals with this investment.
Please note that any further education requests will be considered on a case by case basis by the respective leadership team member based on business need, performance of the individual and affordability in consultation with the Talent Development Team (formerly POD). 
Demonstrate value for money
Whether you are exploring the idea of attending a conference, buying a book or attending a training, please make sure you check their credibility and the value they can add to your growth.
Select resources that are highly regarded and that can effectively provide you with the development you are looking for. 
Talk to other Wisers, check their relevance in your business area by exploring their reputation online or by asking for references and recommendations in trusted industry circles. 
You can also reach out to the Talent Development Team (formerly POD) to ask for advice via the People Bot.
A note on coaching
As per the advisory of our DEI team, the Wiser cannot be obligated to share the topic or goal of the coaching sessions they attend, as these topics or goals might be sensitive topics concerning the lead, the Wiser’s teammates, or Wise itself. As a lead, your responsibility is to check whether the Wiser plans to start coaching sessions with a coach/coaching organisation which is accredited, and which can provide a company invoice. Coaching accreditations is needed to ensure that the coach’s practice adheres to globally accepted ethical and professional standards, and a company invoice is required so that we can reimburse the Wiser. In case you are unsure about any of the above, please contact us via the PeopleBot.



Recommended uses:

Budget should not be used on (not limited to):
Skill enhancement:
Industry conferences. Please note that the Professional Development Budget may only be used to cover the conference fee. Related travel expenses must be covered by your function’s travel budget.
Certification programs. If the fee of the certification you require exceeds the amount of your Professional Development Budget, please contact your People Partner for advice.
Online courses
Workshops and seminars
Professional memberships
Books regarding different skillsets
Audiobook or podcast subscriptions
 
Professional Development:
Coaching
Executive coaching
Work-life balance coaching for neurodiversity
Other types of coaching
Language training from a certified provider presenting a company invoice in case the language in question is needed for the Wiser’s work or visa
Public speaking courses
Project management training
Soft skills training
Books regarding professional development
ChatGPT or other open GPT subscription:
If you need to use any GPT platform, please use Wise’s internal service called Credal. Learn more about Credal here: Credal User Guide | Requesting Access
.
Wise also made Gemini  available. Find information on which tool to use when here: AI Tools & Use Cases - How to choose the right AI tool for general productivity use cases
 
Personal Hobbies and Luxury:
Personal hobbies
Gym memberships or equipment
Luxury conferences
Generic seminars
Fiction books
 
Unaccredited or Outdated Training:
Unaccredited courses
Outdated training
Non-work-related memberships
 
Health-Related Considerations (without direct job relevance):
Wellness retreats
Alternative therapies
Mindfulness apps
Non work-related counselling
Outdoor adventure activities (without job relevance)
 
Mental Health:
Personal development apps
Self-help books unrelated to work
Excessive wellness subscriptions
Psychiatrist and psychologist sessions. For mental health resources, please visit our Resources page.



Help us track your investment
When expensing your development spendings in Webexpenses, add “Learning/Development” as a project code (see more on the screenshot below).
In Webexpenses, simply choose 6 - Training as the category and the code “LEARNING-DEVELOPMENT” from the drop-down menu. This is the only way for the finance team to be able to correctly track the spendings under this category.
This will help us gain insights into the most valuable and frequently requested  areas of interest for Wisers, negotiate better rates with external vendors or identify learning initiatives for popular topics to develop in-house. 
Note for Leads
Update
From Jan 1, 2024 every request for reimbursement in the category 06 - Training submitted via Webexpenses will need to be approved by the lead. This ensures that leads align the cost spent by the Wiser with this policy.
As you prepare to evaluate any Professional Development Budget request, please carefully consider the above points and only approve such expenses when you made sure that all of these criteria have been satisfied. Use this opportunity to elaborate on any unclear aspect of your performance conversations with your direct reports and please get in touch with the Talent Development Team (formerly POD) if you need any further clarification and/or assistance, using the People Bot.

FAQ
I want to use my Professional Development budget on …, can I?
Yes, if you’re able to show a clear link between your spending, your performance and your development and your Lead also approves it.
Can I use the budget to purchase a tablet/e-reader/other sort of device?
No, It’s difficult to link the usage of a smart device to your professional development.
Can I use this year’s budget to purchase/register myself for a course that takes place next year?
Yes! But please keep in mind that this purchase needs to be made and expensed before the cutoff within this calendar year.
If you’re receiving an invoice from the vendor, then that claim needs to be submitted before the cutoff within this calendar year.

Can I use the professional development budget for monthly/yearly subscriptions (magazines, learning portals, etc)?
Yes you can, if the usage of these subscriptions is justified in terms of your professional development to your Lead. Please make sure that you ask for a reimbursement of the costs in Webexpenses. The guide can be found here 
Please remember Wise already has a company-wide agreement in place with LinkedIn Learning. You don’t need to pay for it, but to get access to the platform, you’ll need to request access via Sailpoint. More info can be found here.
How long can I submit claims so it would count into this years budget?
2025 - The final deadline for lead approvals on this year’s Professional Development Budget claims is Nov 30, 2025. Please submit your claims accordingly.

How can I check how much of the budget I have left?
For this please reach out to your team lead or the cost center owner. As the Talent Development Team we don’t have access or insights on the budget of other teams.
Can I use the budget in order to attend a conference/training?
Yes, you can use it also for travelling to a conference or training. However, the travel costs must be paid from the travel budget of your team’s cost center. Please get the confirmation of your lead before you book any travel though! More info about travelling at Wise can be found here.

How do I get reimbursed? Is there a possibility of Wise getting the invoice directly from the vendor?
There are two ways of getting reimbursed. One is using WebExpenses. Please see the guidelines here. In this case you will pay first and get reimbursed afterwards. 
If the vendor agrees to that, you could also ask them to send the invoice directly to Wise, this will be processed for payment as usual (i.e. your cost center owner will have to approve it on Telema). Please follow the guidelines here.

Can I use the budget for a certain training/book/subscription/etc.?
Yes you can. As mentioned above there are two important things to clarify before buying anything: 
Did you talk about it with your lead and have they agreed on this expense? If the answer is no, you are not eligible to use the budget.
Is the expense connected to your professional development and consistent with your role at Wise (i.e. you are not asking to attend a vegan cooking course)? Is the expense category not on the above list detailing what not to use the Professional Development Budget on?

Can I use the accumulated budget from the last 2 years? Is the budget rolling over?
By default, no. However, some teams have made exceptions about this. Please check with your lead/cost center owner about it.

 Can the budget be used to pay parts of a course/subscription/event?
Yes. You can use the budget to partially pay for the learning solution you chose. As an example, in case you attended a training that cost 1,500 EUR, depending on your Professional Development budget allowance, you can get the amount partially reimbursed.


Page Owners
@Ágnes Bonácz





